<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ofw_fyp_dj">
  <title>Should we use entities in our DITA project?</title>
  <body>
    <p>If by "Entities" you mean "XML entities" (e.g. "<codeph>&amp;someentity;</codeph>") then you
    should never use them. Ever. Under any circumstances.</p>
    
    <p>It's not just the DITA way, it's the XML way: we should have never kept
    general entities in XML. Entities are a hold-over from the ancient SGML
    days. They were never a good idea in SGML and XML made them an even worse
    idea. But at the time we formulated XML we were too tied to the SGML way to
    be willing to leave entities out. But we should have.</p>
    
    <p>Note that I am not referring to numeric character references (e.g.,
    •), which are different from entities (they are XML's built-in
    character escaping syntax) nor to the built-in entities for escaping tag
    syntax. I'm only referring to general entities that you declare in a
    document's DTD file or internal DTD subset.</p>
    
    <p>General entities have a number of problems, not least of which is that they
    can only be defined in DTDs, so if you want DTD-less documents or you want
    to use XSD or RelaxNG exclusively, entities are not an option. DITA does not
    require the use of DTDs for conforming DITA documents. So by that alone
    entities would be a bad idea in a DITA context.</p>
    
    <p>But more than that, entities are not manageable. Entities are simply string
    macros that are expanded by the XML parser at the time the document is
    parsed. That means that, with very few exceptions, they are unmanageable
    because any normal XML processor, such as is done by the DITA Open Toolkit
    and similar processors, will never see the entity references, only the
    replacement text.</p>
    
    <p>That means processors have no opportunity to do something different.</p>
    
    <p>With a semantic facility, like conref or better, conkeyref, the processor
    can do different things in a controlled and manageable way, such as resolve
    to different values in the context of different maps.</p>
    
    <p>So, to answer your original question: you should use conref or
    with @keyref or some other element-based way to get the variability and
    configurability you need.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
